                                                         G_SUITE METRICS

Based on the complexity of the G-suite metrics data set, all our team members have divided the g-suite metrics
(Drive, Gmail, Meet, Calendar, Accounts) and each of us stated working on them.

- Google Drive:(Lavanya Goluguri)

I have separated the drive realted data from the original gsuite metrics, and created a new data frame that is fexible to query on parameters.
cleaned that data, dropped the rows that has all nan values, replaced the remaining nan values with the mean of the columns.
As per the suggestions from the mentor I focused more on the 1day active users and 30 day active users.
Also google forms created and edited, google documents created and edited. 
As those point to how much content is being created, and how much is being actually collaborated/updated after creation.

R1 : Coming to statistics part of the drive data the size of the data is now 831 rows X 144 columns, 
the data is collected from 03/2017 to 08/2019. 
I have focused on 1day_active_users, 30day_active_users and google_forms_created, google_forms_edited. 
I did the basic statistics on these parameters like mean, variance, distributions modelling, Maximum likelihood , 
kernel density estimators on the distributions, point estimates, correlation and covariance among parameters and 
Hypothesis testing on the above stated parameters to see if the null hypothesis is considered or 
the alternate hypothesis is considered.
https://github.com/UNCG-CSE/G_Suite_Metrics/tree/Gsuite_lavanyagoluguri

R2: I have spent a considerable amount of time on these tasks.

R3: The Mean of the 1day_active users, 30day_active_users is 3888 and 15955.
In the Inter quartile range there are around 3300 to 4300 1day and 30day active users.
Both the 1day_active_users and 30day_active_users data is discrete so that distribution fit for both is poisson distribution. 
The estimators I used is the kernel density estimator to check my distribution modelling. 
In the point estimates , 
I have taken samples from the 1day and 30 day active users and used the Central limit theorem to plot the mean of the samples,
which is a normal distribution.
I checked the covariance and correlation of the two parameters, it is 0.45, means they are not highly correlated.
I have calculated the confidence intervals, t- critial and z- critical values.
I formed the hypothesis tha the mean of the 1day active users is significantly different from the mean of 30 day active users,
I did the one sample ttest, two sample ttest independent and the relative testing. 
The p value is 0.32, which is >0.05 means we fail to reject the null hypothesis. 

Google Meet:(Anusha Vanama)

Our mentor suggested me to mainly focus on below 6 metrics under Google Meet.

google.meet:total_call_minutes 
google.meet:num_30day_active_users
google.meet:num_meetings
google.meet:num_calls
google.meet:average_meeting_minutes
google.meet:total_meeting_minutes

Currently, I had completed Basic Data Exploration on google.meet:total_call_minutes. 
I am going to perform metrics for remaining metrics as well following the same procedure.

R1 Work done towards the tasks with links to notebooks

Task 1: Extraction of Google Meet data and statistical evaluation
Extracted Google Meet related metrics from the G suite Metrics data set and stored in a new data frame. 
Performed Initial analysis on Google Meet data. 
Task 2: Statistical evaluation of Total Call Minutes metric of Google Meet
Performed initial analysis on Google Meet dataset. Selected total call minutes metric from the top 6 Google Meet metrics as suggested by our mentor
and performed further analysis. Calculated Mean, Mode, Variance, Standard deviation, Interquartile (IQR) range and all basic statistics for total call minutes metric.
Task 3: Distribution Modeling
Plotted Total Call Minutes data using Histograms to observe what sort of distribution will fit my data.
Kernel Density Estimation is used to find probability density function (PDF) for Total Call Minutes data.
Task 4: Finding Correlation and Co-variance within the data
Our mentor is interested in the comparison of the types of devices (ios/android etc). I tried finding Correlation between total_call_minutes_ios, total_call_minutes_android, total_call_minutes
Task 5: Point Estimates
Point estimates are used to estimate the mean of total call minutes of all days. Total Call Minutes data follows exponential distribution.
Used Central Limit Theorem by taking the distribution of many sample means. Calculated confidence intervals and z-critical values.
Task 6: Hypothesis testing
Tested whether the mean of total call minutes for Google Meet in the year 2019 differs from the year 2018 
Tested whether the Mean of number of meetings in google meet is similar to the Mean of number of meetings in google meet using iOS or Android 
Below is the github link for all the above tasks
https://github.com/UNCG-CSE/G_Suite_Metrics/tree/master/src/Anusha

R2 Number of hours spent on each task.
I did not calculate exact time, but I used to spend around 1-2 hours everyday for this project.

R3 Description of the results obtained from the tasks
Results for Task 1: Extraction of Google Meet data and statistical evaluation
There are 55 unique metric names, 29434 observations under Google Meet recorded from January 14th, 2018 to August 17th, 2019.
There are 17731 observations in 2018 and 11703 in 2019.
Some of the Metric Values of Google Meet includes Number of users, Number of Minutes, Number of Meetings, Number of Calls, 
Usage of Chromebox and Usage of Chromebase. 
We have same metric names in both years and there are no new metrics added in 2019.


Results for Task 2: Statistical evaluation of Total Call Minutes metric of Google Meet
There are 543 observations under Total Call Minutes metric of Google Meet. There are 328 observations in 2018 and 215 in 2019.
The Metric Value here is Number of total call minutes which are extracted on daily basis. Metric value is 0 for 155 days.
Maximum number of total_call_minutes is 7623 minutes recorded on 2019-07-01.
Median of metric values is 782 and Mean value is 1152.29 which is far away from median as we have extreme values for total call minutes for few days. 
Eg: There are 7623 minutes on 2019-07-01. Interquartile (IQR) range value is 1861 minutes.
Variance and Standard Deviation are not the right measures of spread as the data is having extreme values.
Median absolute deviation is the right measure of spread for TotalCallMinutes metric which is around 1159.4 minutes.

Results for Task 3: Distribution Modeling
Total call minutes comes under continuous data.
It follows the exponential distribution, the exponential started high and it has a long tail that trails off to the right 

Results for Task 4: Finding Correlation and Co-variance within the data
Correlation of Android and iOS: 0.08
Correlation of Android and Total: 0.23
Correlation of iOS and Total: 0.51
The closer to 0 the correlation coefficient is, the weaker the relationship between the variables. 
Here, there is weaker relationship between Android and iOS usage of google meet.
There is better relationship between Total usage and iOS usage of google meet.
Observed that the Android usage of google meet is less when compared to iOS usage of google meet.

Results for Task 5: Point Estimates
Point estimate based on a sample of 400 observations overestimated the true call minutes mean by 22.560137 minutes.
The distribution has high skewness, and the plot revealed the data is clearly not normal. The sample drawn from this data is also having same shape.
Created a sampling distribution by taking 300 samples from our call minutes data and then making 300 point estimates of the mean.
The sampling distribution appeared to be normal after applying Central Limit Theorem.
In addition, the mean of the sampling distribution approached the true mean, there is only a difference of 3 minutes.
Calculated 95% confidence for the mean point estimate and noticed that the calculated confidence interval is very close the true call minutes mean of 1148.051565
24 out of 25 samples of the 95% confidence intervals overlapped the red line marking the true mean.

Results for Task 6: Hypothesis testing
In all the cases, Null hypothesis is that the means of both groups are the same. Alternate Hypothesis is that the mean is different.
For all scenarios, p value is less than 0.05 which means that we reject the null hypothesis. 
Observation is that the Mean of total Call Minutes of Google Meet in year 2019 is different from year 2018 and The Mean of number of meetings in google meet is different from Mean of number of meetings in google meet using iOS as well as Android
