                                                      G_SUITE METRICS
                                                      

Introduction to the project:

G Suite is a set of cloud computing, productivity and collaboration tools, software and products developed by Google. 
G Suite comprises Gmail, Drive, Docs, Calendar, Hangouts Chat, Hangouts Meet, Mobile, Voice, Slides, Sites, Sheets, Keep and Tasks, 
Groups, Google+, Forms, Contacts, Cloud Search, Chrome Browser. 
Currently, Source Data for Google (G Suite) report metrics is pulled automatically into Splunk from Google on daily basis.

Data Description

Below are the details of Data Set which we are using for this project
• Size: 611,914 rows and 649 metric names.
• Date Range: March 23rd, 2015 to August 17th, 2019
• Fields: time, metric_name, metric_value
Time	- The day for which the data is collected. (format: yy-mm-dd hr:min:sec:msec)
Metric_Name  - it is name of the  google service used with their parameter. 
Metric_Value  - It is a numeric value related to metric parameter, it can be no. of users the metric has on that day, no.of devices that the used the metric parameter, no. of. documents or it can be a size in mb. 

Goals

Performing Analysis on the data set.
Finding Anomalies by comparing the values in the data set using timestamp, metric_name and metric_value.
Prediction of future metric value based on the current data set values.
Visualization / simple dashboard development from the findings using Google Data Studio


OUTLINED TASKS:

Task Description(Lavanya Goluguri): My task is to first break down the data based on the G-suite metrics.
I want to focus primarly on the major Gsuite services: Gmail, Calendar, Google forms, Drive, Cloud and Hangout. 
I will create seperate data sets for a each service. As the metric_value in orginal data set is heterogeneous data it contains a variety of parameters like number of users, size of data shared in mb, number of docs shared, no of devices connected, etc.
which makes it hard to perform data analysis on the dataset unless we make the dataset with homogeneous data columns.  
Progress towards the task: Currently I am working on initial data analysis and cleaning.

Task Description(Anusha Vanama): Year wise data analysis and Data cleaning. Some of the tasks include finding the anomalies in metric values and Predicting the usage of
a particular metric name based on the past usage, finding newly added and deleted metric names and making visualizations from all the findings.
Progress towards the task: Currently I am working on data analysis, data cleaning and performing basic data statistics.

Task Description(Jackie Cuong): My task is to do week by week analysis in order to satisfy the project goals such as finding anomalies and graphic visualizations, while also searching for other creative ways to interpret and transform the data. 
Progress towards the task: Currently I have sorted out all the data by weeks and am preparing to perform additional analysis

Task Description(Henry Reichard): My task is to data clean as well and to analyze the data in a semester by semester analysis.
Progress towards the task:Currently I am cleaning the data set and removing attributes to services that does not exist anymore or attributes that is all 0s or mostly 0s. 
I also seperated the data into fall and spring semesters and perform basic stats and analysis on the fall2015 dataset.

Task Description(Hieu Vo): My task is to clean up, analyze and mine information from day-by-day data. I cleaned up and selected only the matric that deals with day-by-day data.
I created a function that takes matric name, year and month to create bar-graph and line-graph. This helps me and my team to recognize patterns of a particular matric_name and make predictions about it. I also did a 5-number summary on the data to have an overall look of the data. My next goal is to find correlation and relationship between this matric name.



